+++
slug="adr"
title = "Bringing ADR's to my company"
description = "The beginning of my campaign of everything as code."
date = 2020-09-03T00:00:00+00:00
+++

# Bringing ADR's to WGU

Firstly, the context necessary to understand this post and the benefits of
ADR's (architectural design records) can be found 
[here](https://github.blog/2020-08-13-why-write-adrs/).

There are moments in every engineers career where they look at a codebase 
either as a newcomer or as a seasoned vet of that repo and they go, "why did
we do X." The more pervasive this issue this is the more you will benefit from
ADR's.

    "Why did I do the thing?" -- you in 12 months

An ADR is simply put a record of any design decision made in a codebase. Technically
speaking this is meant for architectual decisions (hence the name) but as a proponent 
of if its good then you should take it too far, you can and possibly even should use ADR's
more extensively. Using it as a form of decision record log in your codebase can really 
eliminate the previously mentioned scenario. That new engineer, or perhaps future you 
can refer to these documents and get a sense of how decisions were made and how certain 
things came to be.

There are a plethora of ways to create an ADR but my suggestion is to follow this convention.

    Filename: 001-adr-sample.md
```markdown
# DECISION NAME

## Date

{DATE}

## Status

{STATUS}[accepted, proposed, rejected, deprecated]

## Context

{CONTEXT}

## Decision

{DECISION}

## Consequences

{CONSEQUENCES}
```

### Name

The name should be intuitive enough that it is easy to understand what the decision is. 
Short and sweet. I would caution against more than 1-2 sentences. 

### Status

The status's of these proposals are pretty easy to understand.
You **Propose** a change or decision and then either **Accept** or **Reject** it. If something
changes later and the decision is no longer relevant or is changed you may **Deprecate** the 
decision.

### Context

The context is any information that would help another developer or product manager understand 
why a particular decision was made or the information related to the decision. This section is usually
a bit longer than the others and can be as lengthy as you would like.

    Typically, I aim for 1-2 paragraphs.

### Decision

What decision was reached. Remember not to include any "why's" in this section. Thats for the Context section.
This section is usually 1-3 sentences.

### Consequences

This section can be "living" in that you can update this section as you discover new information.
Not every definition of ADR's wants to allow this mutability, but I feel this section should be especially
in high discovery or PoC work.

--- 

## Benefits

I really like how the github develop blog puts it. The ADR's are not for you.

They are for:

- future you
- your peers
- your future peers

I couldnt agree more. The primary benefit is reducing the "Why did we decide to put a lambda there in our infra?"

## Examples

[examples and more info](https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/architecture_decision_record)
[Lead dev talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rwfXkSjFhzc)